in stocks you can either buy or sell a
stock dope this is also referred to as
going along and short the same goes for
options you can either buy or sell them
too you can either buy or sell a call
option and you can either buy or sell a
put option in stocks selling is more or
less exactly the opposite of buying a
stock if you short the stock you hope
that the price will go down and if you
buy a stock you hope that the price will
rise and that's it with options things
are gluttons are different buying and
selling actually are quite differently
it is very important to understand the
differences between these two things to
trade options profitable in this video I
will break down all the differences
let's start with the main differences
between selling and buying options -
probably one of the biggest difference
is that an option buyer will always have
the right to exercise his option and the
seller will always have the obligation
to accept this more specifically a buyer
of a call option has the right to buy
the underlying stock at a certain
predetermined price a seller on the
other hand of a call option has the
obligation to sell the underlying stock
at a certain predetermined price the
buyer of a put option has the right to
sell the underlying stock at a certain
predetermined price last but not least a
seller of a put option has the
obligation to buy the underlying stock
at a certain predetermined price in
other words a buyer of an option will
always have a choice and the seller will
always have the obligation to deliver or
accept shares at the strike price if the
option buyer exercises his option but
note that not all option buyers exercise
their options this means that just
because you sell an option you won't
necessarily have to
accept or deliver shares this actually
only happens rally additionally you can
still always buy or sell your option
positions the next major difference is
the payoff of a long option and a short
option
long hauls and long puts will always be
defined risk trades this means that your
risk is limited you can only lose a
certain amount of money on the other
hand long options have an undefined
upside which means that you don't know
how much money you will make because
there's no limit this is the same in
stocks short calls and puts however are
undefined risk which means that you
don't know how much money you can lose
as there is no limit but short options
do have a limited profit potential
meaning that you can't win more than a
certain amount otherwise there are many
differences regarding degrees but more
on that later now I'll explain options
selling and buying separately and more
in depth I will start with a small
breakdown of buying options or going
along first of all you can either buy a
call option or a product like I said
earlier both payoffs are defined risk
and undefined profit the only difference
is that a long call option profits from
a rise in the underlying price and the
long put Optima profits from a drop in
the price the further the price moves in
that direction the more profitable these
long options will be but typically long
options are first profitable when the
underlying price moves in the correct
direction this makes long options
directional if the price of the online
would say the same long options would
lose their value and expire worthless in
addition to that long options are opened
for a debit meaning that you'd have to
pay to open a position lastly another
important factor for both options is
that the option Greek theater also known
as time decay does not work in favor of
long options
this means that
is your worst enemy when buying options
the more time passes the more value long
option positions will lose and the less
time you will have for the underlying
price to move in your direction time
decay is not linear so the closer the
long option positions get to expiration
the more value they lose every day now
let us move on to option selling here
again you can either sell at a call
option or sell a put option this is how
the payoff diagrams look for these two
option positions as you can see and as I
said before the downside is unlimited
and the upside is kept so after a
certain price it does not matter how far
the underlying price rises or Falls the
position won't be more profitable than a
set amount and it is the other way
around for the downside the further the
price moves against your position the
more money this position loses no that
short options are suitable for different
market assumptions and long options
first of all a short call is more
bearish than bullish that the long call
the short put option was also bullish
instead of bearish like the long put but
overall short option positions are
neutral and arranged bound to slightly
directional strategies for short option
to not be profitable the underlying
price first has to move against it in
other words if the underlying price
stays like it is at the entry the short
option position should be profitable
this is the case because of the option
greedy theater or time decay theater
actually works in favor of short option
positions so only from time passing
short option positions gain some value
again this time decay is nonlinear
meaning that the closer the option comes
to expiration the more value to a gain
every day
all these features of long and short
options don't only apply to make it cool
and put options there are hundreds if
not thousands of different option
strategies out there most of them either
our overall short option strategies or
long option strategies
therefore the just mentioned points also
hold true for these strategies depending
if they are long or short strategies
here are some of the most popular and
most effective long and short option
strategies first off are the overall
long option strategies and they will
start with their long strangle a long
strangle consists of two long options
and just like others long strategies it
is defined risk and undefined profit
furthermore time decay works against a
long strangle and is it is used for
directional bets because it profits if
the underlying price makes a big move in
any direction next off is a long
straddle the long straddle is very
similar to a long strangle and works
very similar to it the next long
strategy is a long iron Condor this also
consists of two long options but it also
contains two short options nevertheless
the long options are closer to the
online trading price and thus more worth
therefore this strategy is an overall
long strategy and all the points except
for the undefined profit also hold true
for this strategy finally we have a very
simple spread a debits read debits Reds
are made from one long option and one
short option again the long option is
more worth and all the points except for
the undefined profit also count for this
spread now let us move on to some short
option strategies as the first strategy
I chose a short iron Condor a short iron
Condor consists of the same options as a
long iron Condor the difference is that
the short options are closer to the
trailing price of the underlying the
and therefore these are more worth than
the long options therefore time decay
works in favor of this spread and it's
an overall neutral and range-bound
strategy nevertheless it is a defined
risk trade because of the long options
furthermore we have a credit spread just
like the name implies credit spreads are
similar to debit spreads just that the
credit spreads are opened for a credit
and our overworld Swart option
strategies but just like debit spreads
they are made over short and the long
option more over next to the long
straddle there are also is something
called a short straddle which contains
two short options or the above-mentioned
points are true for this strategy last
but not least we have a short strangle
which is very similar to the short
straddle if you are interested in some
of these strategies and want to learn
more about them by options trading side
trade options with me calm does have a
strategy section in which all of these
strategies are presented much more
thoroughly a link is in description
below you now already know much more
about the differences of long and short
options and option strategies but what
is the better should you rather sell or
buy options to help answer that question
I will sum some of the pros and cons of
each up now let us start with the pros
and cons of long options a definite pro
of option buying is that you will have
the right to exercise you do not rely on
someone else and don't have any
obligation
another clear Pro is that long option
strategies mostly are defined risk and
undefined profit some cons on the other
hand are that long options almost always
are directional strategies that give
these trades a rather low probability of
success this is the case because the
price of the underlying has moved before
we make any money finally
big con is that the time decay works
against long option strategies pros of
short strategies are that they are more
versatile because the price does not
have to move for them to be profitable
therefore short option strategies
usually also have a high probability of
success
additionally the option Greek theater or
time decay works in favor of short
option strategies which is a big plus on
the other hand a con is that an option
seller does not have the right but has
the obligation to accept or deliver
shares of the underlying if the option
buyer chooses to exercise his option in
addition to that naked a short options
are undefined risk and all short option
strategies are defined profit strategies
before we move on to a conclusion let me
touch a subject that we haven't heard
too much about up until now the Greeks
and their impact on short and long
options you may recognize this table
from a former video about option pricing
this table displays the impact of the
different option Greeks on different
option positions not all of these are
relevant for the differences between
short and long options but some
definitely are the relevant ones are
Vega theta and gamma
Vega shows the impact of volatility the
positive Vega means that the position
profits from a rise in implied
volatility and a negative Vega
symbolizes that this position profits
from a drop and implied volatility so as
visible on the chart long positions
profit from a rise in implied volatility
and short positions profit from a drop
therefore it is better to trade long
strategies in times of low volatility
and short strategies in terms of high
volatility theta is the next and
probably most important Greek that is
relevant theater is the same as tonic
and I think I mentioned this often
enough but once more long positions lose
some value every day and short options
gain some value every day gamma mesh the
rate of change of Delta Delta measures
the change in the options price for a
one dollar move in the underlying long
positions have a positive gamma meaning
that gamma works in their favor for
every one dollar move in the underline
long positions gained more and more
value as an example let's say a ten
dollar option profits 0.5 dollars after
the first move and then profits 0.6
dollars after the next $1 move and so on
if the price moves down by one dollar
the same $10 option loses 0.5 dollars
but for the next $1 move the option only
lose 0.4 dollars summed up long options
gained more and more value and lose less
and less value for moves in the
underlying the whole thing is the other
way around for short options so short
positions lose more and more and gain
less and less for every $1 move in the
underlying so let us finally come to a
conclusion and sum things up the
question of what is better can't be
answered easily this is because it
really depends on many things it depends
on your trading style the market
environment your portfolio and more but
usually if you want to have a defined
risk trade that can be used as a hedge
or want to profit from directional bets
long options are a better choice short
options are great if you want to profit
from time passing by and don't want to
predict any seemingly unpredictable
prices generally it is safe to say that
most options actually expire worthless
and very many people make money from
this by selling options including me but
this does not mean that buying options
is bad in low volatility times
and for portfolio diversification even I
would buy options if you want to learn
more about options and how I make my
money with them visit trade options with
me dot-com
but for now thanks so much for watching
and have a wonderful day